Hey. turtle.
Is it dead? Touch it.
-Why are you wearing your house?
-Okay. everyone. Recess.
You touched it.
I'm Mabel.
and I'm gonna get you out of here.
Hey. you.
What's in that bag?
What? Hey. hey. come back here!
I'm talking to you.
Mabel. what you doing?
-Is that THE Mabel?
-It is.
Her bag. it's moving!
She's doing it again!
Mabel. give it to me.
-Mabel. sweetie...
-Come here.
-Come here. young lady.
-Mabel.
Easy. easy. just give us the bag.
stay still.
-Drop it!
-Get her!
Oh. gosh. she's so agile.
Stop. young lady.
-Mabel!
-We have rules for a reason.
They apply to everyone including you.
You're part of a big class...
This behavior needs to stop.
We cannot have children
doing whatever they want...
I know you love animals. Mabel.
but you bit someone.
You cannot bite people.
That is not something
I should have to say.
Mom. I gotta get back to work.
Can you take her for a few hours? Thanks.
So. what they book you for this time?
The outlaw's life is pretty lonely. huh?
All right. you leave me no choice.
Come on.
When I was 12.
I punched Suzie Perkins in the face.
I used to get really mad. but not anymore.
Wanna know my secret?
You just have to be very still
and watch and listen.
Feel better?
That's what nature does.
It's hard to be mad when you feel
like you're part of something big.
Grandma. can I come here every day?
Anytime you want.
It could be our special place.
You and me.
No matter what happens.
you've always got this glade.
Gotta go. Grandma.
Safety check.
Check.
Wait! Hey! Stop!
Clear to proceed with ignition?
Safety's off. Earmuffs.
-PPE check.
-Check.
-Okay. ignition in five. four...
-No!
-...three. two. one...
-No! Wait!
Everyone. stop what you're doing!
This is canceled. Hey. put that down.
Hey. get off the beaver dam.
It's full of dynamite.
-Then come take it out.
-We can't!
Fine. I'll take it out.
No. no. no! Don't do that!
Relax. everyone. I'll take care of this.
Mabel.
-Mayor Jerry.
-How's the arm?
Come find out.
-When are you gonna wake up. Jerry?
-Why do you keep doing this?
-You'll have blood on your hands.
-We've things to do. a freeway to build.
We have cars that need to move.
people who need to get to work.
Mabel. I can't keep having
this argument with you all the time.
We don't have this argument all the time.
-People love highways.
-This highway is a disgrace.
-Today is my day. it's not your day.
-Why do you hate nature. Jerry?
-My mother lives here.
-Can't sleep at night
because of the crushing guilt?
Seriously. Jerry. this is illegal.
How are you just gonna
blow up a pond full of animals?
Because there are no animals.
You just gotta be. like.
very still and watch and listen.
No. you don't under--
You gotta give it a sec. Jerry.
Hey. babe. I might be home late.
Wait. where are the animals?
I was just here a few days ago.
We don't have time for this. kid.
I'm 19.
Whatever. Get off the dam.
I'm not going anywhere.
and there's nothing you can do.
-Wait!
-Sorry. kid.
Stop. Let me go.
No one even wants your stupid highway.
Everyone wants my stupid highway.
It's why I'm gonna get reelected.
Jerry. you can't just take their homes.
Look. tell you what: Start a petition.
get some signatures.
then I'll hear you out.
You got 48 hours
till we pour the concrete. starting...
Hi. I'm Mabel Tanaka.
I just need two minutes of your time.
Just need one minute of your time.
We can do this in 12 seconds. I timed it.
Sign here to save
a rare and beautiful place
that apparently only I care about.
which is why
you've already shut the door and I...
Are you from the Senior Sitter Service?
The glade is just special. You know?
Frogs. fish. cute duck family.
baby ducks. more baby ducks.
I basically lived in that glade
growing up.
These pants look comfy.
It's just the perfect place
to calm down and relax
and deal with your rage issues. You know?
Everyone's got rage issues. Am I right?
To some people.
it's an empty piece of land.
But for those animals. it's home.
So. what do you say?
Come again?
I was just saying... thanks for today.
I like you. You've got a lot of energy.
Here.
Thank you!
Yes!
The Beaverton Beltway will be
my proudest accomplishment as mayor.
Finally. connecting Beaverton to itself.
I love animals
almost as much as I love Beaverton.
We were very careful to locate the Beltway
only across land
that wasn't home to any wildlife.
It's why the state gave us
permission to build.
We went through several rounds of--
...only across land
that wasn't home to any wildlife.
It's why the state gave us
permission to build.
Doc! I need your help.
I don't go by "Doc."
Right. right. right. Dr. Sam.
I know Jerry has permission
to destroy the glade.
but something doesn't add up.
Mabel. I'm in the middle of class.
Sup. Mabel?
A class that you are enrolled in.
Notwithstanding your repeated absences.
Look. I understand your passion. I do.
But you're failing my class.
you're breaking your bones.
This obsession with the glade
is ruining your life.
But Dr. Sam. we're running out of time.
My dear. you won't be in college forever.
You need a plan for the future.
Well. what about the glade's future?
The mayor's acting like the animals
are gone. but I'm not buying it.
-Mabel. the mayor is right.
-What?
Those animals are gone.
They left after the resident beaver
moved out.
But what does that mean?
I know how hard it's been for you
since your grandma passed.
But Mabel. you can't save that place.
Only a beaver can.
Wait. what? A beaver can save the glade?
Well. of course. It's a keystone species.
It just takes one to dam a stream.
maintain the dam.
and pretty soon you've got a pond--
Pond full of animals! Of course!
So. so. so. so.
if I bring a beaver back to the glade.
-all the other animals will come back...
-Well. maybe.
...and Jerry won't be able to build there.
One beaver can save the glade!
Theoretically. yes.
-I mean. you're stacking a--
-Thanks. Doc!
Gotta go find a beaver.
We live in Beaverton.
How hard could it be?
One beaver. I just gotta get one beaver.
Mabel. are you sure you wanna do this?
You'll have more opportunities. sweetie.
if you come with us.
Mom. I'm not moving across the country.
Grandma needs me.
Nope.
Look after this place. Okay?
This is impossible.
It worked? It worked!
No. no. No. no. no. no. Wait. wait. wait!
No. no. No. no. no. Come back.
No.
No. no. no.
What?
Hey! Hey. stop!
Kidnappers!
Hey!
Bring that beaver back.
Dr. Sam?
Hey. boss. How's the new prototype?
Good. good. Fixed the latency issue.
firm synaptic handshake.
I don't know.
I just feel like someone saw me come in.
You say that every time.
Well. one of these days I'll be right.
Conner. how's Hopper 3?
All good. boss.
We just need to be careful.
This technology must never
fall into the wrong hands.
What is this?
Mabel?
Dr. Sam! You're...
You're experimenting on animals?
-I'll handle her.
-Nisha. no!
I don't know what you think you saw.
but I can assure--
You people are sick!
No. no. no.
There's a simple explanation to--
What have you done to him?
Mabel. you're holding a robot.
What?
See? Not an animal.
Now. just hand back that--
First. tell me what this is.
Okay. okay. We call it "Hoppers."
Hoppers?
We use a proprietary mindcasting apparatus
to "hop."
or inhabit a lifelike replicant body--
I don't know what that means!
We put this into this.
Yes. yes. This into this.
This into this.
So it's not a real beaver.
-Why would you make this?
-Why would we tell you?
Nisha. it's okay.
You see. Mabel. to help animals.
we have to understand them.
and the traditional methods
just weren't working.
Until one day. I had an idea.
I refined that idea.
Hired two like-minded souls
with relevant skill sets
and. after years of work.
we've done it. Mabel.
They think we're them!
So let me get this straight.
-You created a fake animal...
-Yes!
...which makes the other animals
think you're an animal.
Yes!
You guys. this is like Avatar.
This is nothing like Avatar.
Just give it back.
Put that down.
That's my life's work in your hands.
Wait. Hold up.
Dr. Sam. you could save the glade.
What do you mean?
If you can talk to animals as an animal.
you could find a beaver
and get it to move back to the glade.
-Out of the question.
-Why not?
We do not interfere
with the workings of nature.
Look. we're on your side.
Animals are losing their homes.
and you're not doing anything.
Please. just give it back.
Well. if you won't do it. I will.
No. absolutely not.
Mabel!
Sorry. Doc. I'll bring it right back.
What?
-This is bad. This is bad. This is so bad.
-I think she's in. Keep her on the dock.
What?
Can you hear me? Are you in there?
Crazy.
Mabel. we need to get you
out of there now!
Wait! Wait.
Nice.
Look. Doc. I'm just gonna borrow it to--
Grab her!
Get back here!
Okay. come here.
How is she so agile?
-Get back here!
-We got you!
-It's locked on.
-I know!
That's why we have to dock it!
Come back!
Block the exit.
Mabel. come in. Come in.
-Dr. Sam?
-Mabel.
you are not getting away.
Nisha. she's headed for the south exit.
Got her.
Mabel. get back here.
I know you want to save that glade.
but this is not the way.
Quiet!
-And if you don't come back right now--
-Stop it! Stop!
She found the button.
Nisha. over here.
Where did she go?
I didn't know it could move that fast.
Just find her.
-Mabel?
Mabel?
Yes.
Quiet down. food. My kids need to eat.
Hey.
-And they were in the same den.
-No.
-How you doing?
-Hey. girl!
What's up? I'm here to find my bird.
-Ladies.
-Nice feathers.
-Are we vibing?
-Is this branch taken?
I understand you.
-Ladies.
-What you doing later? Wanna nest?
This is incredible!
Hello! Hi!
You're a deer! What's up?
Hey. rabbit! What's up. man?
What's up. friend?
What is up with all of you?
Hey!
-Squirrel!
-Yeah?
Do you know where I could find a beaver?
Well. you're a beaver.
Yeah. I guess that's true. but--
Here we go.
-Hi. I just need two minutes of your time.
-Go away.
-Just looking for one beaver.
-Sorry!
-Can you just--
-Gotta go!
-Nope.
-Uh-uh.
-Sorry.
-No!
Baby ducks. please.
Tell me where to find a beaver.
Have you checked the stream?
No. Where's the...
Got it. Thank you.
I'm getting the glade back.
Just hang on a little longer. I got you.
Good luck.
Hey. What's that?
It's an arrow. Ted.
Beaver! Hey. over here.
So glad I found you.
What? Me?
Yeah! You're gonna save the glade.
We have. like. one day to dam it up
and make a pond. so let's go.
Hey. you coming?
What?
Please. we're running out of time.
The glade. they're building a beltway
on top of it.
Uh-huh.
The beltway. it's for cars.
Cars are. you know. You know cars?
No. Doesn't matter. The point is it's bad.
We can stop it. you and me.
What do you say?
I should really get going.
Wait. No. no. no. no. no.
Come back! Just...
I'm so sorry. Please.
-Lunchtime.
-Oh. no.
Yay.
No. put him down!
Hey!
Drop him.
Stop. Stop!
Let him go!
I need this more than you need this.
Okay. okay. okay.
Why?
Why. what? Why would I save his life?
-Yeah.
-Yeah. Why would you do that?
Wait. what?
She was gonna eat you.
Well. yeah. she caught me.
It's pond rules.
Pond rules.
Wait. I'm confused.
How could you be cool with that?
I mean. she's got to eat someone.
So. you still wanna...
Uh-uh. It's weird now.
Well. I don't know.
I guess I'm sorry. Okay?
No. it's not okay.
You broke the pond rules.
Now we have to see the king.
There's a king?
Look. she can't have gone too far.
Conner. get out of the bird.
Dr. Sam? You there?
-Mabel!
-Keep her on the line.
Mabel! Mabel. where are you?
Yeah. so I'm sort of
in the mouth of a bear
because I broke something
called the "pond rules."
And now some animals
are taking me to see the king.
King?
-Hello?
-Did she say "king"?
Animals don't have kings.
-Hey. I need a location now.
-Are you still there?
-Got it. It's nowhere we've ever been.
-Hello?
Mabel. you are in way too deep.
and you need to get your
fuzzy little behind back here now--
I know. I will. okay?
Once I get a beaver to the glade.
Listen to me. We do not use Hopping
technology to upset the natural order.
The animal world is a dangerous.
-violent--
-Guys. you should see this.
What?
Look at all those species.
Are these the missing animals
from the glade?
And then some.
Well. I'm sure there's
a scientific explanation for all this.
Why are they all here?
Silence. It has begun.
And up.
And down.
There it is. Looking good.
Now let's step it up a notch.
What?
Yeah! Go!
Yeah. get those little legs moving.
You got this.
Keep it going. Don't you stop.
And one. and two.
Oh. yeah. keep it up and reach.
Grab a little piece of that fluffy cloud.
I see you. turtles. Yeah. work that shell.
There we go. Yeah. no one's catching us.
You got this.
Everyone is killing it today.
Yes. you can and yes. you can
and yes. you...
Stop. stop. everyone. stop. Time out.
Hey. looks like we got a newcomer
to the Superlodge.
What's your name. beaver?
Mabel. remember.
he can't know you're a human.
-And stay calm!
-Say nothing. Just run.
-Just... deep breaths. deep breaths.
-You know? Trees! Dams!
How did he get a little crown?
That's your question?
Hello? Beaver. you got a name?
-Mabel.
-Come again?
Mabel!
And I need to ask you something.
Your Majesty.
"Your Majesty" was my father. I'm George.
-Sir?
-Yes. Loaf?
Ellen was trying to eat me. but then
this strange. new beaver got in the way.
-But that's against pond rules.
-Exactly.
Pond rules.
What are "pond rules"?
Wow. I am clearing the rest of the day.
Let's welcome Mabel. everyone.
There's always room for one more.
Okay. let's take the tour.
With all these animals
living in one little pond.
we needed some rules to make it work.
You want to live here.
you better learn them too.
But I don't want to live here.
I just wanna--
Pond rule number one. don't be a stranger.
It's harder to be mad at someone
if you know their name.
-Looking good. Ron.
-Thank you. sir.
You too. Fran. Tom. Laquon. Rosie.
Tamara. Prudence. Maddie.
Pete. Peter. Petey.
Sasha. Kat. Matt. Tombo.
-Hey there. George.
-And hello to you. Steve.
That's pond rule number two.
When you got to eat. eat.
Pond rule number three.
we're all in this together.
-How is that a rule?
-Well. it means...
no matter who you are.
you look out for others
who need looking out for.
There. Pond rules.
Uh-oh. Buddy...
Why did everyone come here?
Hey. Psst. I'll tell you.
-Hello.
-So. okay. here's the deal.
Whenever animals lose their homes.
the king invites them to come live here.
That's why he built this crazy place.
Yeah. it's crowded.
unsustainable.
and we really miss our homes.
But we're still alive.
Well. when you got to eat. eat.
I think your pond rules are inconsistent.
Okay. I know. I know. I know.
But they got to work for everyone.
Fish. bears. beavers. humans...
Humans? George. humans are not
a part of your pond.
Of course they are.
We're all in this together. remember?
Animal homes. human homes.
they're all just one big place.
George. no.
Humans just don't see it that way.
They want it all to themselves.
and they don't care about you
or anyone else.
I think in their hearts. they do.
They don't. I'm telling you.
-Do too.
-Do not.
Do too. Mabel.
It's the rule.
Okay. please.
I really need a moment with you.
Can we just talk one-on-one?
I see. Oh. boy.
Yeah. I know what this is about.
Ellen. could you give us a moment. please?
Look. don't be embarrassed.
I get this all the time.
Okay.
And I'm really flattered.
but I'm married to the job.
and I'm not looking for a mate.
And not to mention.
I'm way too old for you.
-No. No. no. no. Just stop.
-You're not the first...
-No. no. no.
-...and you won't be the last.
-Please! No.
-I don't know if it's being king...
-No. no. no. Stop. please.
-...or this round. oily bod.
Hey! You see that glade?
Move a beaver there.
so we can take it back.
That's it. That's all I want.
That place?
No one's ever moving back there.
-Why not?
-It's too loud.
What do you mean. "too loud"?
There's just this noise.
It sounds like...
No. that's not it. It's more like a...
ring. ring. ring. ring. ring...
It's like...
It is...
The loud place noise. It's a...
To me. the noise is more like a...
You know. like a...
-It's higher. It's higher like that.
-There's sort of a...
Oh. no. no. no. no. no. It's more of a...
Come on. I'll just show you.
This is nice. I never get out of the pond.
Except when I got to go
meet with the council.
-The who?
-The council.
All-seeing and all-powerful.
Mabel. do you not know about the--
No! There it is.
Do you hear that?
-No.
-Wow. really?
Try getting a little closer.
Yeah. still nothing.
I know! It's bad. right?
No! There's no noise at all!
I can't really hear you.
Anyway. you can see why everyone left.
Because of a noise
that only animals can hear.
Man. it's even worse here.
Making my teeth hurt.
Tell me where it's loudest.
What?
Jerry.
Oh. no!
-No. no. no. no. no.
-Mabel. wait.
You'll hurt your little ears!
Hearing loss is forever.
It's the tree. The tree is loud.
Did she say. "The bee is proud"?
"She sees a cloud"?
What? I don't get it.
Mabel. I don't think beavers can climb.
This one can.
-Yeah. Mabel! Go. you crazy beaver!
-Go! Go! Go! Go!
-Hey!
-Really sorry. I'm Conner from the lab.
I'm gonna need you to come with me.
-Right now. preferably.
-Sorry.
-I have to destroy this fake tree.
-Fake tree? What the...
This is a fake tree.
-Wait. Is that why the animals left?
-I don't know.
Conner. please recover the asset.
10-4. boss.
-Hey. we can deal with this later.
-Stop!
-I've got to get you back to the lab.
-Stop it!
Holy smokes!
-What's that bird doing?
-I think he's helping.
If you could. please?
Gotcha!
Mabel. be careful.
That's too high for a beaver.
No. Jerry's not getting away with this.
Hey. the noise is gone.
-The noise is gone.
"The tree is loud."
Mabel. that was the most heroic thing
I've ever seen a beaver do.
Yeah. Mabel!
Fellow animals!
The humans have stolen
their last inch of land from us.
I say we take back the glade.
Mabel! Mabel!
Team leader. I was not able
to recover the asset.
And she seems to have instead become
a beloved Joan of Arc-type rebel leader.
How long has she been in there?
Is her brain gonna be okay?
Great! The land is ours.
So... what do we do now?
Now... we party.
-Did he say party?
-I love a party.
Party? Isn't there work to do?
We're beavers. Mabel.
Work is the party.
Yeah!
-Come on!
-Yeah!
-Happy to be home?
-Yeah.
It's like we never left.
Hey. Dave.
Hey. Bill.
That's what nature does.
It's hard to be mad
when you feel like you're part
of something big.
Hey. Mabel! Let's go back
to the Superlodge.
We got some things to discuss.
George. I gotta go.
I mean. I only came here
to bring these animals back.
Yeah. and they love you for it.
Look how happy Loaf is.
You can't leave now. Come on. Mabel.
-Mabel. join us.
-Just for a bit. Come on.
-Come on. Mabel.
-Mabel. come on.
Don't do this. Mabel. Please.
Okay.
But I can't stay for long.
Ta-da! The Beaverton Beltway.
Getting you where you need to go
up to four minutes faster.
Hey. big rally tomorrow.
Come for the fireworks.
Stay to watch us pour some concrete.
Yeah. what is it?
The tree is down! The animals are back!
What?
Call the crew.
We got a little more work to do.
What a day. Yep.
Nothing like a good swim
after a long day's party.
-Eh. Mabel?
-What?
Mabel! Wait. do you not know how to swim?
Of course I know. I'm...
I'm swimming right now.
Hey. Here. relax the paws.
Let your back legs do the work.
In back. we're kicking.
Up front. we're kicking back.
There you go.
That is way better. Thanks.
Parents never taught you. huh?
Yeah. along with everything else.
Parents. am I right?
You could say that again.
-Totally.
-Yeah.
My dad thought I was unfit
to succeed him as king.
so he banished me.
I know. Doesn't get worse than that.
One day in. and I was like.
"Somebody eat me already!"
But... But then what happened?
My dad tried to start a new family.
an uncle sought to usurp him.
the Twig Wars began.
Next thing you know. they're like.
"Hey! Return from exile! You're the king!"
And I was like. "Okay."
How could your dad do that to you?
What a jerk.
Yeah. it was a long time ago.
We just saw things pretty different.
He always thought everyone was
trying to take advantage of him.
Me. I just try and see the good in folks.
Because everyone's good deep down.
you know?
Yeah.
I mean. but not everyone. right?
What about your dad?
He was just doing his best.
What about humans?
I don't know.
They make some pretty cool stuff.
What about the guy
who put up that fake tree?
I think if you gave him a chance.
he just might surprise you.
No. he's horrible.
Come on. George. You can't
just go around trusting everyone.
You mean the way I trust you?
Well. I'm different. He's a human.
And I am a b...
a beaver.
Coolest beaver I know.
No.
There's just something
different about you.
You fight for what's right.
you say what's on your mind.
and you're not afraid of anything.
Which is why...
I wanted to ask you something.
Mabel of the Glade.
will you be Paw of the King?
What? Did you say "paw"?
Yeah. my royal adviser.
confidant and eternal friend.
And because I have no kits.
the heir to my throne.
What do you say?
George. I... I can't be your heir.
We just met.
-I... I see.
-And...
you don't know who I really am.
George. I'm...
I'm not a real beave...
What was that?
What?
Loaf. what happened?
The glade.
It's all gone.
I don't understand. We just took it back.
Did the humans take it "back" back?
It gets worse.
So. yeah.
I think there's more loud trees now.
It was intense.
Jerry.
I can't believe that guy.
Gosh. Blow up the dam. I'll blow you up.
Welcome back. everyone.
Dorothy. Jose. Scotty.
We're gonna need to
make a little more room. I'm afraid.
Stop! Stop! We can't give up now.
We gotta fight back.
It's okay. Mabel.
We're better off at the pond anyway.
Pond rules. We're all in this together.
Stop it. No. There has to
be someone who can help us.
Weren't you talking
about some big powerful committee?
The Council?
I don't know. They are a tough crowd.
Well. we gotta try something.
Summon the Council.
Wait. are you advising me?
Yeah. Of course.
Does this mean you'll be Paw of the King?
Yes. I'll be the Paw.
All hail Mabel. Paw of the King!
Paw! Paw! Paw! Paw! Paw!
-George. the Council!
-Right.
Someone call the Council. please.
Okay!
Oh. boy.
They should be here any minute.
George. why are you so nervous?
You're the king.
Mabel. I'm just the Mammal King.
Wait. what?
What?
No way!
Yes! George. George!
Yes!
The great Animal Council
has been summoned.
Let's go inside.
Hey... let me do the talking. Okay?
Yeah. you got it.
This is unbelievable.
They all have crowns.
I'm going in.
We hear your request. Mammal King.
Humans have overrun your glade
and driven its residents
onto your badly overcrowded shores.
Now you seek our help in reclaiming it.
Do I have that right?
Yes! Will you help us?
No.
-Is that it?
-Can we leave?
Good meeting. Short.
-But we really need your help!
-Mabel.
These dry land matters
do not concern the Fish Realm.
Humans are your subjects. Mammal King.
Get your house in order.
-George. you gotta push back.
-Let me handle this.
These are all good points. but...
Mother. I wish to go home. Now!
-What a waste of my time.
-I came down from the sky for this?
-Bad meeting. Long.
-I'm supposed to be at a party.
Do you know how hard it is
for me to come up here?
I think we're done here.
-Let me explain something to you.
-Mabel.
This isn't just our problem.
It's yours too.
It's everyone's.
Oh. no.
What is that?
It's a fake tree.
Look.
This is you and your subjects
living happily in your homes.
But then. Jerry puts this in there.
And it's so loud. you have to leave.
So you're not there to stop him
from taking your land
and building his big. stupid highway.
Doing this to the places you called home.
Wait. who is Jerry?
The mayor of Beaverton.
The...
The Human King.
-What? Unbelievable!
-A human king?
They're defying our authority! But how?
Because you're letting them.
You don't see what's happening
right in front of your face.
How dare you speak to us in this way.
you web-footed commoner!
Patience. Titus. Let her continue.
-Wake up!
-No.
Every year. the human city gets bigger.
and your kingdoms get smaller.
-But where will we all nest?
-We're gonna run out of room!
Exactly. Jerry's gonna take and take
until you end up with nothing at all.
No more land. no more water.
no more you.
-I feel cold!
-I feel dry.
And it's all because of Jerry.
And if we don't stop him now.
we're doomed.
The shrill. unlikable beaver is right.
Like it or not.
we all have our place on the food chain.
But one animal is taking more
than is rightfully his.
One animal.
breaking our very world with his greed.
No longer!
-The humans will not take the glade!
-Yeah!
-Their treachery ends here. now!
Let's squish the Human King.
Yeah! Wait...
"Squish"?
Or...
Or we... we just scare him.
I bet that would work.
No. we must squish him.
Your glade depends on it.
They squish us.
Why shouldn't we squish one of them?
I really don't think we need to
go all the way to squish.
I like it.
Finally. they'll show us some respect!
It's like we say in the sky.
Flap around and find out.
Squish party.
-Squish! Squish! Squish! Squish!
-Okay.
Squish! Squish! Squish! Squish!
Boss. are you seeing this?
Uh-huh.
Then it's settled.
For the crime of stealing the glade.
the Human King known as Jerry
shall be squished.
Summon an apex predator.
Mabel. what have you done?
Yeah. I'm so sorry!
I didn't mean for that to happen.
Wait! I am not okay with this.
-What?
-This is your mess we're cleaning up.
I don't even think squishing
Jerry would save the glade.
Cowards! You wanted us to fight back.
so we're fighting back.
You mammals disgust me.
You call yourselves intelligent.
You're so stupid.
When will you learn?
It's squish or be squi--
Mom?
We gotta go.
I am so sorry!
Squish them!
Come on. Come on. Run. Run!
Hurry.
Mabel! Just stay calm.
We're gonna get you out of here.
Look out!
Nisha! What happened?
Hey! Put me down!
-Mabel! Wait! It's me.
-You again. We gotta get George.
No can do. Mabel. You've already
interfered too much in the animal world.
In fact. to be honest.
it seems you've unleashed a rampage.
-Go get George.
-Mabel! Please! Stop it!
We gotta get you back.
Got you.
This is my nightmare!
Avian traitor. Face the V.
I got V'ed. guys.
They V'ed me up real good.
George?
No! Oh. gosh.
Help me! Please!
Somebody call--
Mabel. what are you doing?
Mabel! Mabel. can you hear me? Come in.
I can't override the telelink.
There's no way to contact her.
Her vitals are elevated.
And she's foaming a little at the mouth.
Mabel. What have you done?
So. let me get this straight.
The Insect Queen is dead.
Mammal King. also dead.
And are there fake animals now?
What do we do?
Silence!
Show some respect.
-Condolences.
-Sorry about that.
-Sorry for your loss.
-Sorry.
Spare me your pity.
Oh. yes. Yes. yes. yes.
I've been waiting for this moment
for so long.
All hail Titus. the Insect King!
-Hail.
Hail.
Human weaponry.
Clever. But no match
for the fury and might of nature!
Soon Jerry shall be squished.
his crown at our feet.
And then. the real fun can begin.
But first.
attend me... as I pupate.
Oh. dear.
Well.
that was gross.
George?
George!
George. George.
Are you okay?
Oh. gosh. That was bad.
That was really bad.
But it's gonna be okay.
And actually. the whole Jerry thing.
it might really help us out.
If he knows they're gonna
squish him. then--
George? Where are you going?
Mabel. I made you my paw.
And. I mean. you put the Human King's
life in danger.
You got me chased out of my own home.
You squished my colleague.
I know.
Now all I can do
is go back to the Council.
beg for the Human King's life. and...
and accept my fate.
-Wait. No--
-I know you care about that glade.
-but this is not okay.
-Well. I'm just...
Why couldn't you just
let me do the talking?
Because I'm so tired of feeling this way!
Like...
Like everything's broken.
And I can't even fix
this one little thing.
Like...
I can't make a difference.
Instead. I make everything worse.
I just...
I am so tired of having to do this alone.
Why?
Why? Why doesn't anyone else care?
I do.
I'm gonna help you save that place.
It matters to you. so it matters to me.
But how can you trust me again?
Trust is like a dam.
It's gonna leak sometimes.
We just gotta patch it up.
George. Thank you.
But we're gonna save the Human King too.
Because we're all in this together.
Pond rules.
Pond rules!
-You can say that again.
-Pond rules.
Thanks. See. Mabel? You're not alone.
Pond crew. we're gonna save the glade
and the Human King. Who's with me?
-I.
-How?
-That is a great question.
Well. the Council's just mad at Jerry
for taking the glade. Right?
Go on.
So if we convince Jerry to give it back...
The Council will call off the squish.
And that's why she's the paw.
-Paw! Paw. paw. paw!
-Oh. yeah!
Paw. paw. paw. paw!
We just got to get to him first.
Let's move. Poor guy must be
scared to death right now.
-Mayor Jerry here.
-Sir. everything's ready for your big day.
I'm on my way.
There he is.
Okay. Mom. here you go.
I like that Mayor Jerry.
He gets things done.
-See you at the rally. Mr. Mayor.
-Can't wait. Jim.
-I love you. Jerry!
-I love you.
And you. And you.
You make me feel like walkin' to my car
And gettin' in
Memo to self: Remember this feeling.
What are you doing?
What do you want?
Please don't hurt me. Wait. What?
I can't believe I have to do this.
We are your friends. Red heart.
Your life is in danger.
You must do exactly as we say. Herry.
LOL. I mean Jerry.
You know my name? Oh. no.
Wait. Is this about the dam?
Are you here for revenge?
What do you want?
Relax. bro.
Just drive to the glade.
cancel your dumb highway.
and no one will get hurt.
Cancel the beltway?
No. we're about to finish it.
-I think you're losing him.
-Don't worry. I'll handle this.
A king should hear from a king.
What are you saying? I don't understand.
Greetings. Human King.
I offer you my fragrant.
soothing oils to calm you.
It's good.
What is this?
-Smells like vanilla.
-You are not safe here. Just do as I say.
This can be fun. like a game.
Time is running out.
We need to get to the glade.
Drive.
Drive. Your life depends on it.
Drive. Now. Rocket ship.
Okay. Okay. Okay.
Exit in five miles.
You are doing great. Thumbs up.
Uh-huh.
He's listening. Mabel. you did it.
All right. All right.
We're not out of the woods yet.
-May I?
-Hey!
Beaver. Beaver.
-Beaver. Beaver. Beaver. Beaver.
-George.
-Beaver.
-Okay. That's probably enough.
Wait. I'm not done.
Chopped wood logs. Chopped wood logs.
Chopped wood logs.
What. logs? You want logs?
I'll get you logs.
We'll forget all about this beltway thing.
-George. you're confusing him.
-No. Look. He likes it.
Excuse me. I have some things
I'd like to say.
Chopped wood logs. Chopped wood logs.
-Lizard. Lizard. Giraffe. Orangutan.
-Stop it. Give it to me.
Potato. Potato. Loaf of bread.
Men wrestling. Loaf of bread.
Coconut. Hospital.
-Okay. Enough.
-Potato. Potato.
Uh-oh.
Guys. look out!
Mabel!
Forgive me!
Hang on! I'll slow him down!
Let go!
Jerry!
Mabel. pull over. We need to unhop you.
-Now!
-I can't. I'm protecting Jerry.
It does not look like
you're protecting Jerry.
Well. he's not cooperating!
They're getting away!
What?
Oh. my...
No. No. No.
No. no. no. no. no. no. no. no.
It's an apex predator!
It's Diane. You guys.
she's actually. like. super nice.
Hi. How are we today?
Could you just scooch back a little?
Yeah. Perfect.
Yep. that's him.
All right. everyone.
Let's try and have a good clean squish.
Beaver. I suggest you leave the vehicle.
Wait! You don't have to do this!
It's a misunderstanding.
Be back in a minute.
Mabel. what's going on? What did you do?
Where'd it go? Did it leave?
You're gonna kill us!
Just calm down and let me save your life.
Mabel. he cannot understand you.
Cross communication does not work
in that beaver body.
-That's it!
-Conner. get the net.
I'm here?
Hey!
-What are you doing?
-Sorry!
-I'll bring it right back!
-Grab her!
Mabel! Diane's back!
Okay!
You'll feel a brief biting sensation.
followed by death.
That's enough. Diane.
We're coming. Human King!
No! Not you again!
Jerry!
It's me. Mabel.
-Mabel?
-Mabel.
-Hey.
Hey.
I get it.
I'm dreaming.
What? No! This is real!
-This is just a dream.
-Jerry. Jerry!
I bet that alarm will go off in three.
two. one.
I'm going to sleepy sleepy time.
That was very unprofessional. beaver!
Not a dream. not a dream.
People are beavers. Beavers are people.
-Birds carry sharks.
-Psst. Jerry!
Stay back!
It's okay. We're on your side.
Us help you. Us no hurt you.
You're not with the shark?
No. We're here to make the shark go away.
-Really?
-This will all go away.
We got you.
Thank you. thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
So. what do we do?
You just have to give up the glade.
You see. the animals are mad at you
because you took their home.
-So if you just give it...
-Mabel.
I'm not canceling the Beltway.
-Jerry. you broke the law.
-Okay. One. you can't prove anything.
Two. what law?
-Three. people want this.
-I saved your life!
Okay. Mabel. I don't know
why you're a beaver now.
It's okay. We can work this out.
Just stay the course.
I made a promise
to the people of Beaverton.
and I'm keeping that promise.
Just like it says in the ad.
He's down here!
-Mabel. no! They'll hear you.
-You gonna give it back?
Okay. please. Maybe we can
work something else out.
-Last chance. Jerry. Three. two. one...
-Please. No. No. Wait.
Got her!
I have the asset!
No. no. no! No. No.
Over here! On the dock!
Put her down. Human King!
She didn't mean to hurt you!
No. George! Stay back.
-George!
-Mabel!
I'm sorry.
Mabel.
Stay put. Your brain needs to recover.
No one should ever hop that long.
George.
Please.
It's me. Mabel.
Wait.
I...
It's okay.
Please.
What?
Jerry?
Where are your...
They'll hear you.
Dr. Sam. what's going on?
Okay!
Okay. okay. okay. I got it. I got it.
Dr. Sam. what did you guys do?
Well. once the Council learned
we had created the fake animals.
they made us put the science
to the opposite use.
Wha...
You made a human?
Not just any human.
Wha... Wait. Wha...
Greetings!
Hey. Mabel. Remember me?
Is that...
It is.
My voice has dropped.
Everyone. I have pupated into a man.
They put this into this.
Where's my body?
So weak and small.
I like this body better.
Don't you agree?
Come on.
What is happening?
Why does he have my face?
I'm sorry.
Are you not pleased to see your king?
What is this? A tail for your neck?
A true king would bare the lushness
of his plumage for all to see.
Welp. I'm gonna lose re-election.
I don't understand.
How does a fake Jerry help the Council?
I'll tell you.
Remember this?
We've discovered
that with a few adjustments
it can be used on humans too.
Turns out if you have enough
fake loud trees in one place
and put all the humans
right in the middle...
The rally.
The sound is not just extremely annoying.
it extremely squishes you.
Please don't do this.
I know Jerry did some bad stuff.
but we're not all like him.
Are you kidding? You two are the same.
You stole.
You lied.
You used us.
There's just no coming back from that.
Right. Mammal King?
George?
No. No. no. no. No. you don't understand.
Please. I didn't mean to...
Too late. He doesn't wanna talk to you.
And he's got a party to go to.
This guy just loves to party. you know?
Come on. everyone.
Don't wanna be late.
George?
I didn't...
It's over! We're doomed. We're doomed.
I hope you're happy. Mabel.
The animals got us.
and it's all your fault.
Hey. I'm talking to you.
Why are you so quiet?
You're freaking me out.
Mabel?
I did use him.
I did lie to him.
Who? The beaver in the crown?
-He was my friend.
-"Friend"?
They're all just animals. Animals!
And now they're trying to squish us
or whatever. and you don't even care.
What is wrong with you? You did this.
You riled up those animals.
Now they're all angry.
Mabel? Mabel!
Unreal. Unbelievable.
You got a problem. kid. You know that?
-You are just the absolute worst.
-Jerry?
I can't believe that
I'm stuck here with you.
-Jerry.
-What?
It's...
It's hard to be mad when you feel
like you're part of something big.
But what are we a part of?
Everything.
We're all in this together.
Hey! We can get out of this. all of this.
if we just work with each other.
How?
Stick your head in there.
What? No. no. no. No.
I'm not getting in that thing.
-Put on the helmet.
-It's not safe!
There are people to save.
They're your voters.
-I'm afraid. okay? I'm a coward.
-I'm gonna count to three.
-Ready? One. two. three.
-Fine!
Okay. Am I supposed to...
What was it like when you...
Okay.
Careful. Jerry. and watch out for the...
Oops.
Jerry. you did it.
Mabel? Mabel.
So what's the plan?
We're gonna give the Insect King
the chance to do the right thing.
What? Why?
Because everyone's good deep down.
Mabel. you know that's not true.
Wouldn't you like it to be?
Just so we're clear. if this works.
I'm still gonna build the Beltway.
And I'm still gonna fight it.
But today. we've got
more important things to do.
Now. stay in that beaver body.
I've got an idea.
So do I.
Fellow Beavertonians.
Please welcome to the stage. your mayor.
Jerry Generazzo!
-Marry me!
-Sup. baby?
Yeah!
It's me. Jerry. your leader.
Are we having a good time or what?
What a day.
It sure is nice to be human.
Yeah.
I mean. look what we did to this place.
It once belonged to all kinds of animals.
Not anymore.
We love you. Jerry!
Speaking of powerful.
who here has squished an insect?
What?
-Me!
-Yeah. I just did.
Who else? Don't be shy.
You've all done it. Come on.
Raise your hands. you little squishers.
Boy. it's a good thing
an insect can't squish you.
Because you'd kind of deserve it. right?
Wait!
It's that girl who hates the mayor.
You don't have to do this. Titus.
-What? "Titus"? I thought it was "Jerry."
-How did you know my name?
Someone very wise once taught me.
"Don't be a stranger."
Pond rules.
Look. I'm sorry I killed your mom.
You think I care about that?
She was old and weak.
Of course you care.
She was your mom.
When it happened. I just... I felt so...
-So...
-Powerless?
Yeah.
I felt that way too.
And it made me do things I wish I hadn't.
But it's not too late. Titus.
We can still learn
to live with each other.
Animal homes. human homes...
-They're all just one big place.
-"They're all just one big place."
Nice speech. Too bad it sucked.
So what. your plan was just to talk?
Did you actually think that would work?
I really hoped it would.
Jerry. Plan B!
What?
-What happened?
-What's going on?
Shut up and let me finish the job.
Sorry. Insect King.
I won't let you back in.
Council.
seize this treasonous milk drinker.
Everyone! Listen to me.
Get out of here while you still can.
She's trying to steal your phone. Jerry!
Wake up!
Give it back.
I'll be back.
I don't think that's the mayor.
Calm down. losers.
I'm just getting my phone back.
That's enough. buddy.
This town's not big enough for the...
Jerry!
What is wrong with you?
-Get him! Yeah!
-Yeah!
Mabel. be careful!
Get off of me.
What are you doing? Stop it. Stop.
No. no. no!
Get it off! Get it off!
Mabel!
Mine!
Time to die. human.
What?
Missing something?
Titus. it's over.
It's just begun.
I will squish every last one of you.
-The mammals. the birds...
-What?
...the reptiles.
-the stupid amphibians.
-What?
No one will ever eat us again.
The world will be our hive.
Mabel!
Mammal King! What are you gonna do?
I'm gonna help.
What are you gonna do?
How dare you ignore me?
I'll burn the whole world down.
Only the insects will--
Everyone. this way. Follow me.
Let's go. Come on.
Mabel. Mabel!
No!
What? George.
Please. I can't lose it. No!
George?
No.
Oh. no. please. please. no.
I'm so sorry. George.
Okay. let's get you out of here.
We need to get him to safety.
-This way. This way.
-Emergency evacuation. everyone!
-This way.
-Let's go. let's go! Come on. come on!
Oh. no. The city.
But... are you sure. George?
It's built too well!
We need help.
All right. folks.
let's clean this place up.
I want it looking like we were never here.
You heard him. Let's go!
Three. two. one.
Yeah.
So. what are you gonna do
about the beltway?
Well. you're here. I'm here.
Let's figure this out together.
-Just move a little to the... to the left.
-Okay. I got it. I got it.
-Jerry. could you... All right. I can't...
-Okay. okay.
-Don't go so fast.
-You're not even carrying it.
Dr. Sam! Dr. Sam!
Dr. Sam? Is that...
Mabel?
Dr. Sam. I thought the mouse was...
you know.
If only. Mabel.
As you can see.
the dean finally shut down Hopping.
But what about the research value?
Not worth the "danger to humanity."
Her words.
But when a door closes.
a thousand windows open.
What?
Now I can focus on all my other ideas.
And I have a lot.
This is so exciting.
It's a little kooky. but--
Hey. could I help with those?
You mean work for me?
Look. I know I destroyed your life's work.
and you probably shouldn't even
have let me graduate.
but I'm looking for a job.
and I just wanna work
with people who care.
You know. we could use someone who's...
-Passionate?
-Annoyingly persistent?
Strong.
Thank you. Dr. Sam.
And I'm sorry about
the whole Hopping thing.
I know you and the king were pretty close.
I am sorry that you can't
talk to him anymore.
Beaver. Beaver.
Chopped wood logs.
Coconut. Hospital. Dancing man. Potato.
Red heart. Red heart.
Revolving hearts.
Potato.
"Look at me. I'm the Human King.
I'm a big man. I do my taxes."
"Legislation. Blah. blah. blah. Hot dogs."
"Beltway. Automobiles. Vroom. vroom.
I love traffic. Big cars.
Big traffic.
More. more. more traffic. Yeah!"